Hey there!  👍😊👍  Pardon the very long message, but I've been sending this out to some of the folk I enjoy being connected with on Twitter in anticipation of Twitter not being around much longer.  This is a list of information that I'm sharing with people who are important to me in an effort to have maintain communication even after Twitter falls apart or and/is abandoned by everyone.

If you've been considering a move to Mastodon, this DM is meant to help with that.  I've valued being connected to you here so I'm sharing the following notes about joining The "Fediverse" via Mastodon.  If you are thinking of starting up your *own* Mastodon instance (which is a cool thing to do!) then PLEASE read this first...
https://defcon.social/@thraeryn@hackers.town/109388180227730770

1. If you want to stay in touch with me in a post-Twitter world, I'm still on Instagram (https://www.instagram.com/deviantollam), YouTube (https://www.youtube.com/deviantollam), GitHub (https://github.com/deviantollam), and regularly checking email sent to the address seen on the homepage of https://deviating.net

2. I have joined the Fediverse and am currently on DEFCON's Mastodon instance. (https://defcon.social/@deviantollam)  You don't have to be a member of that instance to connect with me, however.  If you join *any* Mastodon instance which is federated with the overall network, you can connect with and follow all your friends, even if they are on other instances/servers.  If you are searching for a community to join, https://instances.social has a considerable list of options.  You can also check my profile and look at the "Following" and "Followers" list to see the kinds of instances where many of my mutuals are.  You might even recognize many of your own people in there already.  Also, while it is a bit fiddly, it *is* possible to migrate from one instance to another if you change your mind about where you'd like your Mastodon profile to live down the road.  If you want to better understand all the buzz about Mastodon, I'm getting a video up on my channel all about it shortly (if it's not already live by the time you read this, it will be soon!)

3. If you still have your old Twitter account when you are joining the Fediverse, many folk report that it's a good idea to be as consistent as possible if you want to reconnect with old friends and communities... keeping the same profile photo / avatar / username / etc is often recommended.  Putting your Mastodon profile link in your Twitter bio, etc, is also a common practice.  Some of the best ways to keep connected with folk are the following tools.  This free tool -- https://fedifinder.glitch.me -- will scour all of your Twitter friends' accounts (checking their pinned tweets, profile data, etc) to see if any of them have said that they're also joining Mastodon.  That tool then allows you to download a CSV file with links to your friends' new profiles.  You can import that CSV file directly into Mastodon and become connected with them all in one step.  There's a similar tool called MoveToDon -- https://www.movetodon.org -- which offers related functionality.  I really like the Fedifinder tool, personally, since its latest version incorporates both the above step as well as the following step...

4. You may have many Twitter friends or followers who have not stated that they have a Mastodon profile yet, but perhaps you want to preserve a list of them so that you can keep trying to reach out and connect with them later.  This free tool can export your Twitter following/followers into downloadable lists for you to save... https://unflwrs.syfaro.com

5. If you have concerns about what may happen to your personal information and Twitter data when that site fails completely and eventually gets sold for scrap, there are a number of tools that work rather smoothly.  Journalist and privacy advocate Micah F Lee created Semiphemeral (https://semiphemeral.com) a tool for deleting Tweets and DMs.  I have long used the premium (paid) version of the service TweetEraser (https://www.tweeteraser.com) which I found very effective.  Both such tools can only "look backward" into your account a limited amount.  For accounts with a very large number of tweets in their history, it typically becomes necessary to download your Twitter Data Archive and then upload your tweet history database (but not re-upload all of your media and such) to whatever scrubber tool you are using, so that the tool can properly index and target all of the tweets and likes and such in your history.  If it's exclusively your DMs that you care about purging (or if the "retrieve my Twitter data archive" function has become broken but you still want to at least purge your DMs) then there is a scripting tool called "DM Destroyer" (https://dmdestroyer.com) created by Jackie Singh (@HackingButLegal) which is purchased for a small fee and can run locally in the Chrome web browser's console.  While the script is a bit fiddly (it gets "stuck" on Group DMs which you have to leave manually, then the script will resume) it does a decent job compared with trying to clear your DMs manually.  NOTE: as with any such service, there is limited regulatory oversight in the USA due to our weak privacy laws... and just how "deleted" your data is if you purge it from a service like Twitter cannot be guaranteed.  But taking these steps can bring some limited peace of mind.  I regularly use tools like this and will continue to do so as things come to an end at Twitter.

6. If you have content on Twitter, either your own posts or important threads that you've bookmarked, that you are sad about seeing vanish you can preserve things a few ways.  Your own Twitter archive (mentioned above in the TweetEraser section) will have all of your content, including images and videos, etc.  If you want to preserve someone else's threads then the Archive Social tool -- https://archive.social -- is a great way to do that.  Go through the threads that you reference often and collect them into downloadable PDFs, etc, with that tool.

7. I am on Discord but I'm not logged in often and seldom see messages there in real time.  Likewise, I sometimes browse Reddit but as with Discord that's not the most reliable way to reach me.  I am not (and have never been) on Facebook.

8. For my closest friends, I'm also making sure they know that I'm available on Signal and you can always drop a secure line there.  (I tend to keep all conversations on Signal set to expire automatically, so please don't feel bad if I fail to recognize your phone number in future or if I have to ask you to remind me who you are if you're pinging me there without the benefit of a profile picture or conversation history to jog my memory!)

I hope that we can stay in contact.  I'm here if there's anything I can do for you or ways that we can cross paths in the future, perhaps.  Please feel free to reply here with any contact information of your own or -- if you don't trust Twitter with your data and your messages -- you can always email me with any information that you wish.  Absolutely no obligation or expectation at all, however.

See you soon, I hope.  Stay safe out there!  👍

P.S. - I'm semi-scripting these DMs so if we're already connected on Mastodon, all the better and I'm sorry to have cluttered your DM inbox.  If anything in the above text is a helpful script for you to pass messages to others, though, feel free to of course borrow any or all of this!
